
- In the case that a rule is in question, please feel free to let me know. If this takes place mid-game, I will make a decision quickly so the game can move on quickly. If the decision is questioned, you can come discuss it after the game and present a more in depth case. This is to ensure we keep the game moving in the moment, but give you the chance to have your position heard.  Once the matter is discussed, I will consider the matter closed unless new information comes to light. Given the volume of rules, this may occur, but I would rather focus on moving forward than continuously discussing the same ruling.
- I do not like the argument between Rules as Written (RAW) and Rules as Intended (RAI). Being as I am not the author, and the author isn't here, I have no practical knowledge of what was intended, people arguing on the internet are not qualified observers. The best sources available are the rules, including other relevant rules, and Sage Advice's arbitration. As such, I will use a court system. I will read the rule and make an interpretation, if you disagree, you can present your case quickly, in the moment, I will make a final ruling and we will proceed with that ruling as binding. If you wish, you can appeal by request, get more information together, and present a more complex case. I will review it in more depth, after the session, when more time permits, and make a ruling. If I overrule the original ruling, we will discuss this in the opening of the next session to make sure everyone is aware of the change. Similarly, if I realize I have been making the wrong ruling, I will make note of the change in the next session intro.
- I will try to avoid deviating from the rules of the game or banning things in the game to keep things as open as possible. In return, I ask that you keep in mind that the game is about having fun. If your actions are preventing others from enjoying their experience at the table then I will take issue. If someone else's actions are making your time not enjoyable, if you wish, please contact me in private so I can address the issue. Your experiences are important to me.