
- I expect everyone at the table to treat each other with respect. If there are any topics that you want struck from the game, please let me know. If you wish to let me know in private so I can strike them for you, I need to know before the next session. If something comes up later, and you need it added to the list, please advise so we can discuss how to proceed.
- I will try to avoid deviating from the rules of the game or banning things in the game to keep things as open as possible. In return, I ask that you keep in mind that the game is about having fun. If your actions are preventing others from enjoying their experience at the table then I will take issue. If someone else's actions are making your time not enjoyable, if you wish, please contact me in private so I can address the issue. Your experiences are important to me.
- In the case that a rule is in question, please feel free to let me know. If this takes place mid-game, I will make a decision quickly so the game can move on quickly. If the decision is questioned, you can come discuss it after the game and present a more in depth case. This is to ensure we keep the game moving in the moment, but give you the chance to have your position heard.  Once the matter is discussed, I will consider the matter closed unless new information comes to light. Given the volume of rules, this may occur, but I would rather focus on moving forward than continuously discussing the same ruling.
- I do not like the argument between Rules as Written (RAW) and Rules as Intended (RAI). Being as I am not the author, and the author isn't here, I have no practical knowledge of what was intended, people arguing on the internet are not qualified observers. The best sources available are the rules, including other relevant rules, and Sage Advice's arbitration. As such, I will use a court system. I will read the rule and make an interpretation, if you disagree, you can present your case quickly, in the moment, I will make a final ruling and we will proceed with that ruling as binding. If you wish, you can appeal by request, get more information together, and present a more complex case. I will review it in more depth, after the session, when more time permits, and make a ruling. If I overrule the original ruling, we will discuss this in the opening of the next session to make sure everyone is aware of the change. Similarly, if I realize I have been making the wrong ruling, I will make note of the change in the next session intro.
- 

- Rule Interpretations and clarifications:
	- Sleep
		- A creature that is naturally sleeping, as opposed to being in a magically or chemically induced sleep, wakes up if it takes any damage or if someone else uses an action to shake or slap the creature awake. A sudden loud noise — such as yelling, thunder, or a ringing bell — also awakens someone that is sleeping naturally. 
		- Whispers don’t disturb sleep, unless a sleeper’s passive Wisdom ([Perception](https://www.dndbeyond.com/compendium/rules/basic-rules/using-ability-scores#Perception)) score is 20 or higher and the whispers are within 10 feet of the sleeper. Speech at a normal volume awakens a sleeper if the environment is otherwise silent (no wind, birdsong, crickets, street sounds, or the like) and the sleeper has a passive Wisdom ([Perception](https://www.dndbeyond.com/compendium/rules/basic-rules/using-ability-scores#Perception)) score of 15 or higher.
		- _**Trance.**_ You don’t need to sleep, and magic can’t put you to sleep. You can finish a long rest in 4 hours if you spend those hours in a trancelike meditation, during which you retain consciousness.
			- Based on the ruling regarding noises with regards to passive perception and the fact that creatures in a trance retain consciousness, I am ruling that creatures in a trance can use their passive perception to apply to all effects that it may be relevant to, without disadvantage. Creatures attempting to sneak up on another creature in a trance must pass a contested skill check with their sneak skill against the passive perception of the creature in trance or be noticed.
	- Surprise rounds at the start of a fight are imposed as a status condition. Each defensive characters passive perception is used at a contested roll against the attackers average stealth. If the defending characters passive perception exceeds the average stealth of the attackers, they can take actions on their turn. Otherwise they cannot.
	- A turn takes 6 seconds. 
		- Standard movement is based on how fast the character can move while still effectively taking actions. Getting up from prone takes about three seconds so it takes half movement. 
		- Actions take a lot of focus and can't be done at the same time as other focus heavy activities
		- Bonus actions are things that can be done at the same time as actions, typically by being quick enough to slip in while doing the main action
		- Reactions are effectively reflexive and can be done whenever
		- Bonus action spells don't allow the use of other spells, except cantrips, on the same turn. I have not seen a good logic for this, it appears it may have been added to lower the amount of time people spent looking through spells lists, especially since, with action surge, you can cast two action spells just fine.
	- Skill checks are not subject to criticals. This is in the rules but some online games have added this for drama and it doesn't make much sense in reality.
	- DM Inspiration - The DM can give players Inspiration for playing their character well, or for other reasons. Players can use this to provide a future d20 roll advantage OR they can give it to another player for playing in an exciting way themselves.
	- If you want to carry a bunch of crap, you need a backpack. If you can make a reasonable argument on how you are fitting everything into it, that is good enough.
	- Rolls: Sometimes when you wish to do something, you will need to roll to determine success. This will come with a Difficulty Class (DC). The higher the DC, the harder it is for someone to do what is desired. In some cases, there are levels of success. This is especially evident when the attempt is made to do something with a very high DC, perhaps the DC is even so high that it is impossible to achieve. What may happen is that a high roll is required just to avoid arrest or attack. In general terms though: 
		- A DC of 5 is considered simple, something just about anyone can do. A roll in this case might be called if a high roll might grant a degree of excellent success that would uncover something that would normally be missed, or it may be called to hide the fact that the task is simple.
		- A DC of 10 is an easy task, with some training, or a modicum of luck, this should be easy to achieve. As with the DC 5 tasks, rolls may be required to offer levels of success or to hide the difficulty.
		- A DC 15 task is moderately hard. Someone would need some specialized training, natural aptitude, or luck to be able to accomplish this task. Rolls will be required.
		- A DC 20 task is hard and beyond most peoples capabilities without a lot of luck or exceptional ability. Even then, a certain amount of luck is almost always required.
		- A DC 25 task is achievable by only the most highly trained individuals.
		- A DC 30 task is almost impossible but can be done with a lot of luck and training combined.
		- Higher DCs are possible and push the envelope of capability out to the extreme. In these cases, often the roll is made to determine how bad the failure is, not how well it succeeds.
- Henc

